SEPTEMBER 6
PHIL. HISTORY
                                                                                                                                 In 1955, a better trade Agreement between the Philippines and the United States was signed.

This was through the Laurel-Langley Agreement following the conclusion of negotiations between Senator Jose Laurel and diplomat James Langley in December, 1954.

The agreement replaced the Bell Trade Act which was unpopular among Filipinos due to its provisions that tied the Philippine economy to the US.
It abolished the US authority to control the exchange rate of the peso and the made the parity privileges reciprocal. The agreement expired in 1974

PRAYER FOCUS
May trade agreements between the Philippines and other countries be truly favorable to the Filipinos. May our diplomats and representatives to these agreements be nationalistically wise and persuasive, and attempts by foreigners to deceive and manipulate us be thwarted by them

 Unity and win-win agreements must be maintained by Christians
                                                                                                                                   "I appeal to you, brothers and sisters,[a] in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that all of you agree with one another in what you say and that there be no divisions among you, but that you be perfectly united in mind and thought. – 1 Corinthians 1:10
9/1/18, 7:24 PM

Joe sent September 1, 2018
SEPTEMBER 7
WORLD HISTORY
                                                                                                                                 In 1813, the United States is nicknamed Uncle Sam
                                                                                                                              This was derived from Samuel Wilson, a meat packer from Troy, New York who
supplied barrels of beef to the United States Army during the War of 1812.

Wilson stamped the barrels with “U.S.” for the United States.
The soldiers referred to this as “Uncle Sam’s”. Later, the local newspaper developed the story and the name eventually gained national acceptance as nickname for the US federal government

Later, cartoonists Thomas Nast and James Montgomery Flagg developed Uncle Sam’s image as we know today

PRAYER FOCUS
May every symbolic name and image of countries be respected continually by their respective groups. May political cartoonists and artists refrain from making abusive and derogatory artworks.

Names, nicknames and even symbols are often valuable. Even the Lord Jesus had some kind of a nickname, accompanied by a wonderful symbol.

"Therefore the Lord himself will give you[c] a sign: The virgin[d] will conceive and give birth to a son, and[e] will call him Immanuel – Isaiah 7:14
9/1/18, 9:37 PM

Joe sent September 1, 2018
SEPTEMBER 7
PHIL. HISTORY
                                                                                                                                 In 1974, the Pantabangan Dam in Nueva Ecija was formally opened.
                                                                                                               Construction of this multi-purpose, P800 M-worth dam begun in June, 1971. That’s after the Philippine Congress authorized the development of the Pampanga Basin through Rep. Act 5499, which led to the thorough study and plan of the said dam.
                                                                                                                        Owned by the National Power Corporation, this dam provides water for irrigating farms and hydro electric power generation. It’s reservoir, Pantabangan Lake, affords flood control.

PRAYER FOCUS
May this and the rest of our dams be protected from natural disasters and man-made destructions. May these produce ample hydro electric power and water for irrigation. May the government find more sources of alternative energy.
                                                                                                                              The Holy Spirit’s power is the best source of spiritual water and energy

Whoever believes in me, as Scripture has said, rivers of living water will flow from within them.”[c] 39 By this he meant the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were later to receive. – John 7:38b-39
9/2/18, 12:00 AM

Joe sent September 2, 2018
SEPTEMBER 8
PHIL. HISTORY
                                                                                                                                 In 1954, the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization was established in Manila

Also known as the Manila Pact, it aimed to stop the spread of communism in the region. Its founding members were the Philippines, United States, France, Australia, United Kingdom, New Zealand, Pakistan and Thailand
                                                                                                                              The organization held joint military training yearly, and had some work on mutual social and economic concerns. It disbanded in June, 1977. It was later replaced with the ASEAN, or Association of South East Asian Nations.
                                                                                                                        PRAYER FOCUS:
May the ASEAN and other regional and global associations continue to develop good relationships with other member-countries.  May the ASEAN unite strongly against any abuse of powerful countries like China especially regarding the West Phil. Seas.

Treaty or no treaty, the key to peaceful alliances between people and countries are basic
                                                                                                                                11 Finally, brothers and sisters, rejoice! Strive for full restoration, encourage one another, be of one mind, live in peace. And the God of love and peace will be with you.  – 2 Corinthians 13:11
9/2/18, 1:57 AM

Joe sent September 2, 2018
SEPTEMBER 8
WORLD HISTORY
                                                                                                                                 In 1945, U.S. troops arrived in Korea to begin its occupation of the country’s southern part.
                                                                                                                              This was in line with the Allied Forces post war agreement (US, USSR, China & Great Britain) to liberate the Koreans from the Japanese Imperial Army which had possessed their land since early 20th Century.
                                                                                                                              The agreement included that the Russians will in turn occupy Korea’s northern part. Once both parts were totally liberated from the Japanese, US and Russian forces would leave to facilitate the unification of an independent Korea

 This didn’t happen. After the Russians left in 1948 and the Americans went home in 1949, communist North Koreans invaded their southern counterparts.
That forced the US to return and secure the territory of the south, That kept Korea divided until now.

 PRAYER FOCUS
May the unification process of these two countries succeed eventually. Meanwhile, may military and political confrontation be prevented always
                                                                                                                             May we all realize and experience the glory of unifying with our brethren
                                                                                                                             How good and pleasant it is when God’s people live together in unity!  - Psalm 133:1